yet here now Oh Jacob my servant and
Israel whom I have chosen thus says the
Lord who made you and formed you from
the womb who will help you fear not o
Jacob my servant and you discern whom I
have chosen for I will pour water on him
who is thirsty and floods on the dry
ground I will pour my spirit on your
descendants and my blessing on your
offspring they will spring up among the
grass like willows by the watercourses
one will say I am the lord's another
will call himself by the name of Jacob
another will write with his hand the
Lord's and name himself by the name of
Israel thus says the lord the king of
israel and his redeemer the lord of
hosts I am the first and I am the last
besides me there is no God and who can
proclaim as I do then let him declare it
and set it in order for me since I
appointed the ancient people and the
things that are coming and shall come
let them show these to them do not fear
nor be afraid have I not told you from
that time and declared it you are my
witnesses
is there a God besides me indeed there
is no other rock I know not one those
who make an image all of them are
useless and their precious things shall
not profit they are their own witnesses
they neither see nor know that they may
be ashamed who would form a god or mould
an image that profits him nothing surely
all his companions would be ashamed and
the workman they are mere men let them
all be gathered together let them stand
up yet they shall fear they shall be
ashamed together the blacksmith with the
tongs works one in the coals fashions it
with hammers and works it with the
strength of his arms even so he is
hungry and his strength fails he drinks
no water and his faint the craftsman
stretches out his rule he marks one out
with chalk he fashions it with a plain
he marks it out with the compass and
makes it like the figure of a man
according to the beauty of a man that it
may remain in the house he cuts down
Cedars for himself and takes the Cypress
and the oak he secures it for himself
among the trees of the forest he plants
a pine and the rain nourishes it then it
shall be for a man to burn for he will
take some of it and warm himself yes he
Kindles it and bakes bread indeed he
makes a god and worships it he makes it
a carved image and falls down to it he
burns half of it in the fire with this
half he eats meat he roasts a roast and
is satisfied
he even warms himself and says ah I am
warm I have seen the fire and the rest
of it he makes into a god
his carved image he falls down before it
and worships it praise to it and says
deliver me for you are my god they do
not know nor understand for he has shut
their eyes so that they cannot see and
their hearts so that they cannot
understand and no one considers in his
heart nor is their knowledge nor
understanding to say I have burned half
of it in the fire yes I have also baked
bread on its coals
I have roasted meat and eaten it and
shall I make the rest of it and
abomination shall I fall down before a
block of wood he feeds on ashes a
deceived heart has turned him aside and
he cannot deliver his soul nor say is
there not a lie in my right hand
remember these Oh Jacob and Israel for
you are my servant I have formed you you
are my servant Oh Israel you will not be
forgotten by me I have blotted out like
a thick cloud your transgressions and
like a cloud your sins return to me for
I have redeemed you
saying oh heavens for the Lord has done
it shout you lower parts of the earth
break forth into singing you mountains
Oh forests and every tree in it for the
Lord has redeemed jacob and glorified
himself in israel thus says the Lord
your Redeemer and he who formed you from
the womb I am the lord who makes all
things who stretches out the heavens all
alone who spreads abroad the earth by
myself who frustrates the signs of the
babblers and drives diviners mad who
turns wise men backward and makes their
knowledge foolishness who confirms the
word of his servant and performs the
counsel of his messengers who says to
Jerusalem you shall be inhabited to the
cities of Judah you shall be built and I
will raise up a waste places who says to
the deep be dry and I will dry up your
rivers who says of Cyrus he is my
shepherd and he shall perform all my
pleasure saying to Jerusalem you shall
be built and to the temple your
foundation shall be laid